Hey everyone, welcome back to the
channel. We're back with popular demand
for another low-level design breakdown
today. So, we're going to be breaking
down another really popular LLD
interview question. This time, designing
an elevator system. This is one that
comes up a lot at Microsoft in
particular, shows up across the big
fangs that do LLD interviews, and it's a
step up from the beginner problem that
we already broke down with Connect 4
because there's some really complicated
movement logic that has some significant
depth to it. Uh, I'm going to walk
through how I would answer this as an
interviewer and also what I, as the
interviewer, will be looking for at each
step along the way. Uh, just really
quickly, for those of you who are new
here, I'm Evan. I'm a former Meta Staff
engineer and I'm the current co-founder
of Hello.com.
Hello Interview is a platform that helps
software engineers just like you prepare
for their upcoming interviews. So, we
have everything you need, including
in-depth content on different interview
types such as system design, ML system
design, level design, code, behavioral,
AI coding. You name it, we probably have
it. Uh, as well as in-depth guided
practices that let you walk through
these problems like the one we're
showing you today, step by step
yourself. And finally, mock interviews
with senior plus and managers from your
target company. So, all this to say, if
you're preparing for software
engineering interviews, come on over to
heller.com after this video. Check us
out. The overwhelming majority of the
content there is totally free. Uh what
else? If you like what we're doing here,
consider liking and subscribing. I
always forget to say that one, so I'll
throw that one in there. And then the
last thing, as you can see on the screen
here, if videos aren't your thing, we
have a full written breakdown of this
problem, as well as many others on the
site. So you can head over here uh and
go through this instead if you would
prefer.
Before we dive in, let's just quickly
touch on the framework that we're going
to follow both in this YouTube video as
well as the framework that I suggest you
use for all of your upcoming low-level
design interviews. And the goal of this
framework or any framework really is to
keep you focused and on track while
ensuring that you touch on all of the
most important things and don't end up
running out of time in what is a short
interview typically. So, the first step
in any low-level design interview is to
cover the requirements. You're going to
spend some time here engaging in a back
and forth with your interviewer in order
to understand exactly what it is that
you're building and have an agreed upon
set of requirements that's going to take
you forward. From there, you want to
model the entities and their
relationships. This is basically asking
like what are the nouns of my system?
What are the things that I'm going to
want to model as classes or enums moving
forward? And then with those in hand,
you can move on to your class design in
order to take those entities, go through
them one by one using your requirements
to derive both the state and the
behavior for each one of your entities
or each one of your classes. And then in
this case, state is just the things that
you need to remember in order to enforce
the the requirements. And the behavior
uh is what the class needs to be able to
do. Basically, the functions you're kind
of creating the interface for the code.
And then you can move on to number four.
Well, with that class design in hand, we
need to actually go implement it. And
so, this is different by each company
and each region. Some companies or the
majority of companies just prefer pseudo
code here instead of actual code.
They're worried more about your design
choices than your syntax. For this
video, that's what we'll do. We'll focus
on pseudo code and keep it language
agnostic. Um, but for the full
implementation, Java, Python,
TypeScript, other languages, they're all
available in the written breakdown
that's going to be linked in the
description. So, if that's what you're
after, go check that out there. And then
finally, in your little design
interview, if time permits, you tackle
extensibility. And so, these are just
follow-up questions about how the design
could evolve. Uh, I'll cover what some
of the most popular ones are for this
particular question as we get to the
end.
All right, enough with all the setup.
Let's let's jump in. So, imagine that
you sat down in your low-level design
interview and you were greeted with this
prompt on the shared editor. Design an
elevator control system for a building.
The system should handle multiple
elevators, floor requests, and move
elevators efficiently to service those
requests. Great. So, some of you may be
thinking, I know how elevators work.
I've taken elevators. This is easy. Let
me just jump in. Let me start coding.
Let me get working on the problem. Um,
and let me encourage you not to do that.
The interviewer wants you to ask
clarifying questions in order to clarify
things up front. This problem statement
is intentionally vague. And so problem
analysis is the competency that
interviewers are explicitly evaluating
and grading you on in order to make sure
that you can take a moment, understand
the problem, and nail down those core
requirements. And so that's what we're
going to do here today. We're going to
ask some questions first to better
understand that. Now, I tend to ask my
questions because it's a question
candidates always ask me. How do I know
what questions to ask? And I break them
into three categories. You want to ask
about primary capab capabilities. You
guys are going to have to watch me type
here in real time. error handling and
then scope boundaries.
And so what are the main functions of
the system? The primary capabilities,
what are the error handling that we need
to consider? And then what's in and out
of scope for our particular system. And
so if you were going to ask questions in
each of these categories, I'm going to
paste in some questions here so that you
guys don't watch me just do a bunch of
typing. But the questions might look
something like this. I might first ask
my interviewer, how many elevators and
floors, are they fixed or are they
configurable? And if I'm the
interviewer, I might respond, let's keep
it simple for now. Let's say there's
three elevators, maybe 10 floors, and
it's fully fixed for the time being. I
might ask then, are hall calls just up
and down, or do they choose a floor? And
so to level set on terminology, if you
think about an elevator, there are two
places where you can press buttons. The
first is if you are not currently in the
elevator, you're waiting uh on a
specific floor, and you can typically
press either up or down. And this
requests the car to come to you, right?
But in some fancy elevators, you can
even specify what floor you want to go
to. And so that's what this question is
asking. Those are referred to as hall
calls and what we'll call them today is
hall calls. So are hall calls just up
and down or do you get to choose a
floor? And as the interviewer, I might
say just up and down, right? You just
choose the direction from the hall call.
Uh then I might ask him, can passengers
select multiple destination floors
inside the elevator? Interviewer would
say yes. Now this is normal of
elevators. you get into the elevator.
When you're in the actual elevator cab
itself, you can click any number of
floors. And these are kind of
destination calls. And they specify
where you want the car to actually go.
Uh, and then I might ask, I noticed that
in the problem you said that you want
the cars or the cabs to move
efficiently. What does this mean? And as
the interviewer, I'd probably stay vague
here. I'd say I'm going to let you
define it, right? You'll be able to
specify what the algorithm is for
determining which direction any of these
specific elevators take in order to
service requests, but we want to do it
in a way that is reasonably efficient.
Okay, so we'll keep that in mind when we
get designing. As for air handling,
maybe I want to say things like, "What
about invalid floor requests?" A little
silly considering it's hardware and you
have fixed buttons, but we're building
software, so it's a decent question. Uh,
as the interviewer, I'd say, "Yeah, you
know, any request outside of the zero to
nine, the 10 that we uh specified, throw
an air, reasonable error of some sort."
Um, what if someone requests the floor
that we're already on? It's a no, no big
deal. Uh, and then some scope
boundaries, capacity, weight limits,
door mechanics, all of that hardware
stuff, emergency stops, we have to
handle that. As the interviewer, I'll
say, "No, that's out of scope for now.
Maybe we'll talk about it in
extensibility at the end." And then this
last one is is important. So whenever
you have a mechanical system like this,
you might want to ask, is this a
simulation where we are simulating time
with steps and ticks or are there actual
hardware control software involved here?
And as the interviewer, I would tell
you, nope, let's focus on a simulation,
steps and ticks. Um, and this is common
in these sorts of interviews. So a real
interview system, of course, doesn't
have a step function you call to advance
time, which is what we'll use here. It
has motor controls, floor sensors, uh
these fire interrupts, they have async
control flows driven by hardware events.
But in a low-level design interview,
we're almost always expected to build
the simulation. Uh whether the problem
is elevators, parking lots, vending
machines, traffic lights, right? The
pattern is usually the same. You want to
abstract away the hardware and control
time yourself with a step or a tick. And
this keeps the problem really tractable
and allows us to get through it in 35
minutes. So you'll see when we get into
the implementation, but this basically
means that we are going to have some
loop that says step and that step is
going to increment every elevator by one
move. Maybe one floor, maybe open,
whatever it may be. Um, and that's how
we're going to manage the processing of
time. Cool. Um, so once you've asked all
of these questions, then you have a
pretty good understanding. You were
probably taking notes throughout. Maybe
I should have done so here, but instead
I'm going to paste in what ends up being
a concrete final set of requirements.
And so this is the really important
thing that you want to agree upon with
your interviewer before you get going
and actually designing the system. And
so with our with our system, we're going
to uh agree that the requirements are
that the system manages three elevators
serving 10 floors 0 to 9. Users can
request an elevator from any floor. We
call this a hall call. and the system
will decide which elevator it needs to
dispatch to. So, we'll need to be
thinking about an efficient way to do
that. Once inside, users can select one
or more destination floors. And then the
simulation runs in these discrete time
steps. A step call advances time, right?
That'll click when you see us actually
do it. Um, elevator stops come in two
types as we had mentioned. This is a
useful distinction. You have those hall
calls. This is a request from a floor
either up or down. And you have a
destination request. These are requests
from inside an elevator. Uh no direction
specified. The system can handle
multiple concurrent pickup requests
across floors of course. And then any
invalid requests we agreed should be uh
return false or throw an error. Requests
on the current floor are just a no. So
that's the summary of everything we
talked about as it pertains to
requirements. I'm going to look at my
interviewer at this point. I'm going to
say how's this sound to you? Anything
you would change? Are we aligned?
They'll give me the thumbs up. And now I
know that I'm going to go design a
system that they were actually expecting
and not waste a bunch of time designing
something that wasn't aligned with what
they wanted.
Now that we have our requirements in
place, the next step in our delivery
framework is to move on to those
entities. And so the entities are the
nouns of our system. These are the
things that we may consider being
classes. They're kind of setting up what
are we going to need to focus on when we
get into class design in just a moment.
And so there's actually an easy process
here and it builds linearly off of the
requirements that we just did. You scan
through your requirements looking for
nouns and you consider whether each of
those nouns makes sense being a class or
maybe just a string or a number or a
value object or something in your
ultimate design. So if we scroll through
here, the first we get is we get an
elevator. And so let's talk about an
elevator. I think it's clear to everyone
that an elevator is almost certainly a
class in our system. It needs to
maintain state like the current floor,
the direction, which floor to stop at,
the requests that it needs to serve. And
then it needs to enforce rules like the
directions that it travels, when it
stops, all of these sorts of things. And
so elevator, we know that's almost
certainly going to be a class. Now, if
we keep reading here, we land on floors
and requests. Those are nouns that come
up a lot. And so, we can put a floor
here. And at first glance, a floor or
first glance, excuse me, a floor seems
really important. But what is a floor
class if we build it? What would it
actually do? What state would it
maintain? Uh what rules would it
enforce? Right? And they don't. They
don't maintain state and they don't
enforce rules. It's really just a
number. It's just a property that tells
us which floor, what number the elevator
either needs to go to or is currently
on. And so not a class here. This is
just a number. It's probably going to be
a field on things like requests and
elevators.
Now, the other one that we mentioned was
request. And so, what is a request? A
request we know can be one of two types.
It can be a hall call or it can be a
we'll call it a destination request from
inside of the of the actual elevator
itself. And this needs to know the floor
that the request is going to if it was
from inside of the elevator. And if it
was from outside the elevator, then it
needs to know the direction, right? Are
we going up or are we going down? And so
in essence, it could just be a value
object. It could just be a tupole
depending on your language. Maybe you
want it to be a class, but we'll put it
class here just for simplicity. Um, but
we'll just kind of note to oursel that
we need direction and potentially the
floor. Those are the things that are
interesting there. And now there's one
other that's maybe not as explicitly
mentioned as a noun in our requirement.
But when we think about this simulation
running discrete steps all of this and
we think about the fact that someone
needs to dispatch hall calls and all of
this is like maintained by the elevator
system you could call it or as is
commonly named in these sorts of designs
the controller. And so we're going to
have an elevator
controller. This is certainly going to
be a class. The elevator controller is
going to be that thing that is our main
entry point to call step which is going
to increment time in our simulation.
It's going to be the thing that receives
hall calls and decides which elevator we
need to dispatch it to. It's our
orchestrator, right? So, it owns the
system level view and makes all of the
coordination decisions. Certainly a
clear entity in our system.
Now that we flesh out our entities, we
can move on to our third step which is
our class design. And our class design
is where we specify the state that each
class holds and what operations it
supports. And so we're going to work top
down. We're going to start with the
elevator controller. Uh since it's the
entry point, the external code interacts
with the controller, not the individual
elevators. We'll design the interfaces
first. Uh then we'll drill into the
elevator and this will keep us focused
on just those public contracts instead
of getting bogged down in all the
implementation details, which is what is
going to come next. So let's get started
on doing exactly that. I'm going to
start by designing the as I said ele
gosh typing on the spot is hard the
elevator controller and the way that we
can determine the class design is
actually super straightforward. It's
again just derived explicitly from our
requirements and we just want to answer
two questions. What is the state this
class needs to maintain? and what are
the methods, functions or behaviors that
it needs to be able to do. And so if we
look up at our requirements, we can say
that the system manages three elevators
serving 10 floors. Okay, so that
indicates to us that we are going to
need to have elevators. And that's just
going to be a list of elevators,
right? Easy. As far as state goes on the
controller, that's it. uh requests
themselves, we're going to allow those
to be managed by the elevators. And so
when a request comes in, we're going to
dispatch it immediately to an elevator.
Now, you could argue that request should
sit on the controller. Um and then the
controller decides maybe based on a
queue of requests when to send them to
each elevator. There's pros and cons to
both approaches. I like elevators
maintaining their own state. I think
it's clearer. Um and it also allows them
to make better scheduling decisions that
we'll see later on. So, as far as the
elevator controller goes, it's going to
have one bit of state and that is just
the elevator. Um, but what about the
methods? What are the functions that it
needs to be able to do? So, coming back
up to our requirements, users can
request an elevator from any floor.
Those are our our hall calls, right? So,
we should have then a request elevator
and that's going to take in a floor that
you're currently on and a direction that
you want to go and maybe we just return
either a boolean for success or failure.
Maybe we return void. Uh, and then what
else do we have? We have that simulation
runs in discrete time steps, right? And
so we know that the elevator controller
is our entry point. It's what runs those
steps. So we'll have step void and step
you'll see clearly in the implementation
is simply iterating through let me make
this a little bigger is simply iterating
through each of the elevators and
incrementing their step by one. Um just
for completeness sake here we'll add a
constructor as well. This constructor is
what's going to initialize those
elevators with three elevators in our
case that could put into the list. So
there is our complete class design for
the elevator controller. The state is
the elevators and it's got a couple core
functions there.
With that, we can move on then to our
actual elevator. And so if we move down
the stack to I don't know why elevator
is really hard for me to type, but we
can move to elevator. And what does an
elevator need to know? Well, elevators
are serving those 10 floors, right?
Elevators are serving those 10 floors.
Um, so we need to know probably which is
the current floor that this elevator is
actually on. So its current floor. Uh,
we also need to know which direction
it's going, right?
This direction it's going. And I'm going
to create a direction enum. And so I'm
going to have an enum here for
direction, which will have up, down. And
this part's a little bit trickier, but
I'm going to throw it in there. We're
going to have idle. A lot of candidates
forget this, but elevators aren't only
going up or down. Sometimes if there are
no requests, they are sitting idle. This
is important.
um it'll have some consequences in our
actual implementation. So make sure that
you're thinking through all of the
possible states when you're adding an
enum. But I'm going to have up, down,
and idle respectively. And then an
elevator, as we had mentioned just a
moment ago, it is going to need to have
its set of requests. So users can select
one or more destination floors. We
defined up here and we said that our
elevators were going to have requests.
So they are going to have a set of
requests.
And the reason that I'm going to make it
a set of requests instead of a list is
because this way we'll handle
dduplication for us automatically. So
you may not need to know this during
class design. Maybe you come up with
this in your actual implementation. But
this is great because now if multiple
people click the same floor. Um it's all
good, right? We're not going to try to
go to that floor multiple times. That
doesn't make a lot of sense. Um so this
is the complete state for elevator. And
now we need to ask ourself, what does
elevator actually need to be able to do?
And so I can start with our simple
constructor again.
Get that one out of the way. Um, and
then what else do we need? Well, we need
to be able to add requests. Certainly,
that's going to take a maybe it's just
going to take a request object, right?
It's going to take a request object. Um,
and then it can return either a boolean
for success, failure again, or void.
Importantly, we need that step function.
And so this guy is just going to call
step on all the elevators. And that's
going to determine whether we do a step
up, a step down, whether we open our
doors, whether we do all of that. Um,
maybe we want to be able to get our
floor, of course. Easy enough. These are
just simple getters. It's going to
return a number or an int. I guess we've
defined it as here in our pseudo code.
And we also want to be able to get our
current direction.
Get our current direction. And that is
going to be that direction enum. So if
we come up here, like did we miss
anything? Once inside, users can select
one or more destination floors. If they
do that, that's going to be added to our
set of requests. Okay, no problem. The
simulation runs that's going to have the
step. The users can request an elevator
from floor. We just talked about that as
well. That's the hall calls. And so
that'll be dispatched from here to an ad
request call to elevator. Uh the
multiple concurrent pickups is fine. Our
set helps us with dduping there. All
good. Okay. So I think I feel good. We
might notice we're missing something as
we get down to implementation, but I
think I feel good about how elevator is
looking. And that means that we should
move on to our next one here, which is
request.
Requests is a fun one and one that we
should probably talk about for just a
moment. So as we already discussed
requests have two type. So let's just
specify it. They have the hall calls. In
a hall call you specify the floor that
the elevator needs to go to and you also
specify the direction. So floor plus
direction. Now destination calls we'll
call them. These are from inside or
destination requests. These are from
inside the elevator and they just have a
floor right? There's no once you get to
this floor you'd have to continue in a
certain direction like is the case for a
hall call. And so one way that you might
think about modeling this is that you
just need a floor which is required and
that's going to be the int and a
direction which we already have a
direction enum. So why not just use it
and maybe make it nullable because we
don't always have a direction right? A
lot of candidates jump to this. This
isn't horrible. I want to be clear it's
not horrible but there are some issues
with it. The first is that there is uh
we're reusing elevator directions which
have an idle state for a request.
There's no such thing as an idle
request. That doesn't make sense. So now
by encoding and using the exact same
enum, we've introduced a state to a
request that can't be possible. So
that's already an issue. Right? Now we
could add a different enum here and call
it a request direction and have just up
and down. But you still then have this
nullable thing. It's nullable. And
whenever you add null a null here, you
kind of leave the question open for what
does null mean here? What is the null
state? This needs to be explained by
somebody reading the code for the first
time. They don't necessarily know what
this means. And so there might be a
cleaner way that we can actually model
this. And what I would suggest is that
we take the following approach. We
encode those states explicitly and we
say that we have a floor and then we
also have a request type. And that
request type is a new enum. A request
type is an enum which is either a pickup
up. So basically the pickup and the
direction is up. A pickup down. Those
are both our hall calls. Or a
destination. Okay. So you have two hall
calls that encode whether they're going
up or down. You have the destination.
And then now we don't have any nullable.
It's super clear to any readers what the
request types are. There's three types
of requests. Basically, the two hall
calls a pick up and down and then the
cart call of being or the cab call of
being the destination. And then just for
completeness here, we can have uh our
constructor which takes in the floor and
the type. We can have get floor which is
going to return the floor
and
get type which is going to return the
request type. Okay. And then importantly
for our set up here equality is going to
be need to be based on the floor and the
type. So request of seven uh floor 7
with type pick up pickup up is different
than request of seven pickup down.
different elevators would go and service
those differently because the
expectation is that you don't have an
elev elevator cart that comes to you
when you when you chose up from the hall
who's actually going down, right?
Hopefully that's pretty clear. Okay, so
if I zoom out a little bit, there
is our complete class design. We got an
elevator controller which controls the
elevators. The elevators have a set of
requests that they need to service.
Elevators are moving in a direction
either up, down, or idle. And requests
can be one of three types. a pickup up,
a pickup down, or a destination.
Here we got our class design in place.
And so now, let's have some fun. Let's
move on to the actual implementation.
This is where we'll implement the actual
method bodies. In our case, we'll do it
in pseudo code, as is the case in in
most low-level design interviews. And
your interviewer at this point will
usually point out the core methods or
the core functions that they actually
want you to implement. You usually don't
have time to write all of the code. So,
they're going to point out some
interesting ones, and those are the ones
that you're going to focus on. If I was
conducting this interview, I would say
that like the elevator controllers
request elevator elevator is interesting
as well as the elevator step.
And so we'll do those. We'll also do
some additional ones just for
completeness so that you guys can see
kind of all of the core functions here.
Note that that'll mean this video
probably goes a lot longer than a real
interview does. Um you guys tend to like
more information than less. Um let me
know if that's no longer the case in the
comments and we can switch it up. But
I'm going to try to give you guys all
the information you need here. The way
that we go about the implementation,
just like all the other steps, we have a
methodical uh process to do this. We're
going to outline in English what is the
core logic this function needs to
support. And then what are the edge
cases? And we usually already know that
core logic based on both the combination
of our requirements and our class
design. And same too with those edge
cases. So we'll just make them explicit.
Let me make things bigger so you guys
can see it. I'm going to start with that
elevator controller. And I'm going to
start with the interesting function that
we just talked about which was to
request
which is to request the elevator. And
you have the floor that you're
requesting it from. And then you have
the request type right that enum that we
defined earlier.
And the way that I'm going to do this
just like I said is I'm going to outline
the core logic
and then I am going to outline the edge
cases, the error conditions. And so what
happens when you request an elevator?
Well, the first thing that you need to
do is that you need to figure out what
is the best elevator for us to send this
request to. In general, we find an
elevator and then we add this request to
that elevator's request. And you could
find the elevator a handful of different
ways. You could find that elevator maybe
by doing just finding the closest
current elevator. You could find the
round robin, the the the elevator that
you've uh it's been the longest since
you said a request. You can do something
a little bit smarter, what we'll call
direction. That's something that we'll
handle. But the general concept is that
we need to find the best elevator to
handle this request.
And then the second thing is send that
request to the elevator. Pretty
straightforward.
As far as edge cases go, I guess the
only one that we can really think of is
if that floor is out of bounds. Again,
you have physical buttons. So, this is
kind of contrived. Um, but we'll throw
an error. If the request is going to
somewhere other than floor 0 to9 in our
case, then that's not so good. Um, one
call out I'll have here is that our
request elevator and our elevator
controller and our elevator class. These
are examples of the design principle
called information expert. You don't
need to remember that name, but the
concept is important. And it's that
elevator owns the requests. So, it's
going to be the one that decides whether
or not to stop, whether to reverse or
whether to move. That's what we're going
to handle later on in elevator.step. Um,
but the controller owns the list of
elevators and so it decides which one to
dispatch uh requests to. And each class
makes decisions about the data that it's
own it owns. That's the takeaway here.
That's the information expert and it's
what we're following as we implement
this. Um, okay. So, let's do this. The
first thing is that I am going to create
a new request object out of what just
got passed in. You could say should this
just take a request. Maybe this is our
external uh public function call. And so
I'm making the argument that a request
is an internal type. So we'll take it.
We'll construct that internal type. Um
but I should learn how to spell or type
correctly. And then we need to determine
that best elevator. So we'll select best
elevator and it'll take that request. Uh
and then we are just going to return
that best elevator add its add the
request to its set of requests. Right?
Straightforward. Now what you'll see
here is that I just kind of like
offloaded all the hard part. You're like
select best elevator. That was the
interesting bit and you just totally
skipped it. But this is so effective in
low-level design interviews. I abstract
it out into a private helper method, the
complex part. And I'm going to now go
implement it. You guys will see me
implement it. But this helps my logic be
super clean. It helps it map directly to
my core logic in my edge cases. We
haven't taken care of edge cases. We'll
do that in just a second. Uh and then I
can move on to my private helper without
being like bogged down in the details
too early. Hopefully that's resonating.
Um before I go and implement that helper
though, let's handle this edge case. So
what did we say? We said that if floor
is less than zero or floor greater than
9, uh, then we'll return false. Of
course, in reality, these are probably
like a max floor uh, min floor enum in
our contrived requirements. They were
fixed numbers, so we're just going to
use them there. There's actually one
other thing I want to call out now that
I'm just looking at this. Um, type is a
request type, and we said that request
types could be pickup up, pickup down,
and destination. Clearly though, you
can't request an elevator with a
destination type. That destination type
is reserved for when you press a button
within a uh a car, right? So, this is
kind of wrong. We're exposing an an
interface to this function. We're
exposing parameters for which one of the
enum states is not allowed. Now, in an
interview, I would recognize this and I
would call this out and I would say to
my interview, there are a handful of
ways to address this. We could narrow
the type definitions here. So I could
say that this is just pickup up or pick
I'm using kind of a TypeScript notation
here now. I'm just mixing notation since
it's it's pseudo code. We could validate
here at runtime if type type equals
destination throw an error destination
you know throw.
Um I don't love that. I'd rather narrow
the types so that we can do it you know
statically as opposed to at runtime. And
this we said we were going to throw
right. So throw here
out of bounds.
Uh and clearly maybe I want a better one
there. So
not a valid floor.
Anyway, u so I've narrowed the type
here. Fine. If you notice something like
that in your interview, it's okay. You
can go back, you can change class design
so you can be clearer. Um but there that
is. Now let's do that. Select best
elevator. And so select best elevator
here is going to take in a request and
it's going to determine which one of
these elevators we should actually end
up uh servicing the request. As I
mentioned, there's different ways that
you could do this. And I may even
mention to my interviewer, this might be
an appropriate place for the strategy
pattern where you actually have an
interface for selecting the best
interface uh or best elevator. And you
can implement that strategy differently.
You can do it as nearest, load
balancing, direction aare, and then
whoever the caller is or whoever the
engineer is can define, you know, which
one of these strategies they actually
want to use for their current elevator
system. Now, we define that we have a
single elevator system. And so, I'm
going to just implement what I think the
best uh elevator is, and we have a
limited amount of time in an interview,
but I would note that to my interviewer
so they know that I'm aware of patterns,
but I'm not overengineering.
Um, okay. So again here we can do that
core logic in error cases. What is the
core logic for selecting the best in uh
the best elevator? Well the first thing
that we could do is we could try to find
the elevator moving towards us. Are
there any that are in our direction and
coming towards us right uh and going in
the right direction. If none maybe we
just try the idle elevators
and get the one that's nearest, right?
Okay. So get the nearest idle elevator
and then three maybe you know if any
fall back then you just pick the nearest
pick any whatever right there's some
fallback condition there. Uh edge cases
wise let's see as we implement but
nothing's immediately coming to mind u
so what does this look like best equals
is anybody
uh moving towards me. So find moving
toward with the request and then if
there is somebody moving towards me
basically this is not null then I'm
going to return
I'm going to return that guy otherwise
let's say I'm going to find the nearest
idol
to my floor. I'm going to pass in the
floor there. uh and if that guy is not
null
and I'm going to return it
otherwise maybe we just return you know
find the nearest
find nearest.
So, same strategy we took above. We kind
of offloaded the maybe more interesting
parts, but it makes our logic super
clear and it allows us to now implement
that interesting part, which will do the
fine moving toward because it's the one
that is maybe the most difficult and I
don't want to offload that forever. And
so, I'll push that off to my to my
interviewer. Um, or I won't push that
off anymore, I'll say. And this is the
one that I'm gonna implement. So core
logic here
find moving toward what does that mean
right that means that something an
elevator is currently going down
and I am lower than it
or an elevator is currently going up and
I being the request am higher than it
right so this is going to be uh you know
scan elevators
going that direction
and then like keep track of closest
return closest something like that.
Okay, so let's do that. Let's say the
floor that we are currently on our
request floor is that great. The
direction of our request is because we
have different types here, right? We
have get type if this equals equals pick
up up then we're going up
then we're going up otherwise we're
going down. So all this is just
converting this into the elevators ter
the elevators language because we
separated those enums for good reason.
But this is saying that if the request
is to pick up up then we need this to be
going up. We need an elevator that is
going up cuz you again just to be super
clear here even if there is an elevator
that is close to my floor 5 if it is
currently going down and I press the up
button I don't want it to get me I don't
want to get in an elevator going down
right so that's what this is saying it's
saying that the direction of this
request in elevator terms is that the
elevator must be going up uh or the
elevator must be going down respectively
based on that turnary right uh and then
let's just set up some state for our uh
loop here the current nearest is null
and then the current min distance that
we're going to iterate over can be you
know some max value in whatever your
language is. And so then it's for E in
elevators. We're going to loop over all
of our elevators here and we're going to
say if uh E get direction does not equal
the direction that we need. So you're
not going in the right direction. Right?
This is an elevator that is going down
when we request it up or the other way
around. then continue through our loop.
We don't want him. Okay, easy enough.
The second one is if the direction
equals equals up and the elevator's
current or the elevator's get floor, I
think we called it, right? The
elevator's floor is greater than our
current floor.
or the other way around.
It's moving down and it is less than our
floor. So, think about what that means,
right? It means that yes, this elevator
is going the right direction, but it's
already lower than us or higher than us
respectively. So, like it's beyond us.
It's going down. It's going the
direction we want, for example. But I'm
on floor five and it's on floor four.
It's heading to floor three. It's not a
good candidate for me anymore, right?
So, again, we don't want it. Um if all
those things are not the case then we
can see how far is it from the floor
that we want. So now we confirmed that
it is coming towards us and let's just
see how many how far away is it and then
if that distance is less than the
current minimum distance that we have
which we set defaulted to max value. So
the first one will certainly meet this
then we can update
our min distance.
do that new distance
and nearest is that elevator. At the end
of all that, we return nearest. So, I
don't know how valuable that was for you
guys to like watch me code that. Uh
maybe let me know in the comments, but
let's zoom in just for a second to to
take a quick check. All that we're doing
here is iterating through all of the
elevators. If the elevator is going not
in the direction that we want, it's not
interesting to us. If it's going in the
direction we want, but it has already
passed us, it's not interesting to us.
Otherwise, let's see how far it is from
us and let's find the one that is the
closest. Right? This is going to be the
best possible elevator for us and the
one that we're going to choose. If
that's not the case, then we're just
going to go filter to all the ones that
are idle and do the same absolute check,
right, to check which one is closest.
I'm not going to write that code cuz
it's very similar and it's super
straightforward. Um, otherwise, a
blanket find a nearest can be our
fallback. This is obviously the most
straightforward. This is just take all
the requests or excuse me take all the
elevators take their current floor get
the absolute distance between um the
requested floor and we're good to go.
Okay. Um maybe just to be complete here
for request elev or for elevator
controller let me also add step. Um
this is just so straightforward but I
think it's worth seeing. It's just this
right. So each iteration through our
simulation, the elevator controller
calls step and it's just going to
iterate through all of the elevators and
call step. Right? So this controller, it
doesn't know how elevators moves. It
just calls e.step. The elevator doesn't
know about other elevators. Each class
is hiding its internals. This is the big
one. This is encapsulation in object
oriented programming. Right now let's
move on to that elevator step function.
This is the big one, the interesting
one. So we're going to have our elevator
class and then we have step and this is
essentially how do elevators move how do
they know which request to service in
which request do they service in which
order do they service requests all of
that is encompassed in this function
here step and so before we go into
actually talking about the
implementation I want to show you a
couple of options here and so this is
going to compare option one which is
FIFO which is let's just service every
request in the order that they come in.
Really simple algorithm. And the second
is the scan algorithm. This is by and
large how elevators actually work uh
with some minor caveats and it's what
we're going to implement here. And so I
described FIFO. That one is
straightforward. The way the scan works
is that you essentially keep going in
the same direction, sweeping in the same
direction, servicing all requests that
you hit moving in that direction until
you have no more requests or you meet uh
you hit the top or the bottom
respectively. And then you turn around
and you keep sweeping in the other
direction again servicing all requests
until that same condition is met. So let
me show you what this would look like.
Let's imagine that you had requests come
in in the order of a hall call for eight
down, a hall call for three up, and then
a cart call or what are we calling
these? Destination calls from inside of
the cab for seven. Right? So in the
beginning, what you see is that they
were both heading in the same direction.
So scan is continuing to sweep up. FIFO
is just trying to go to the first
request which is eight here. And so they
keep moving.
That next step, what happens is we
stopped in scan because we hit that
seven which was what was our
destination, right? That seven here.
Even though that was the last request
that came in, we open the doors. We let
that person get out. We didn't do that
in FIFO because we're carrying on to the
first one that came in, the eight down.
Okay, so let me keep playing.
Now, at this point, we get to that eight
down for scan. We service it and we
flip. And now we head in the opposite
direction. We keep scanning all the way
until we get to the bottom where that
three is, we service it. At which point
we go idle because there are no more
requests to service. Now, you can see
that scan was much more efficient. So,
in our problem definition where we said
that we wanted to do something
semi-efficient, scan is the appropriate
thing to do. Now, you might be thinking
to yourself, Evan, what the heck? How am
I supposed to know elevator uh
algorithms? How am I supposed to know
the name Scan? Like, this is a BS
interview. Don't worry about it. You're
not expected to know the name Scan. Of
course not. You're just expected to be
able to reason around the basic logic
that yeah, you should be heading in the
same direction and not be trying to
change directions all the time. You've
been in an elevator before, right? You
know what that's like. So, we don't need
to make it more complicated really than
it is. The question becomes though, how
do we implement it? And so, let's take
the same approach that we did for
elevator controller talking about the
core logic and then those edge cases.
And so starting with the core logic,
let's talk about every condition that
could happen here. Well, the first is
the elevator could already be idle. And
so if you are idle with requests, then
you should pick
the direction toward the near gosh,
typing is hard today, guys. Nearest
request. Okay, so your elevator is idle.
You do have requests. Well, you might as
well go towards the closest one. All
right, straight enough. Nothing
controversial there. [snorts] Um, you
should also check if we should stop at
the current floor. And so this would
either be that it matches a hall call or
a destination from inside the elevator,
right?
And then we have if there are no
requests ahead of us, then we should
reverse. So if we're moving down and
there are no requests lower, well, we
might as well reverse. If we have other
requests, so none ahead of us and other
requests pending, then we should reverse
and start heading in the direction of
those requests. All right? And then the
last thing here is that we should move
one floor in the current direction.
So we should continue sweeping in that
same direction. If we didn't do any of
the things above, we should continue
sweeping in that same direction. As for
edge cases, uh if there are no requests
at all, then we should set ourselves to
idle and just return, get out of there.
Um, one thing to consider is that like
stop and move, they can't happen in the
same tick.
So like in the same amount of time, you
can't move to a floor and stop and open.
Like that would be bending time to some
degree. So those are two distinct ticks.
move to the floor, service that floor,
and keep moving. That's going to be
necessary as we think through our
implementation. Um, yeah, so the rever
and same with the reverse and the move,
right? And reverse and move. Those don't
happen in the same tick. So, I don't
know if that's an edge case.
It's not an error condition, but it is
an edge case worth considering. Anyway,
let's come in here and let's let's
implement this. What was case one? Case
one was there was nothing to do. U
basically requests is empty. There are
no requests and so we've set our
direction to idle and we return. That
one is super easy. Hopefully everybody
is with me so far. That one is not
controversial. Case two, um maybe if we
are already idle, then we pick a
direction. And so if our direction is
currently
idle, I don't know why that keeps
autodoing that. Then what we're going to
do is we are going to find the nearest
request to us. We've started to see how
these helper functions start to look
with the previous one. And then we are
going to set our direction, the
direction of this elevator to that
nearest. So if the nearest request that
we got, we're going to get its floor. So
let's say that the request that we just
got was floor nine. Okay. Now if that is
above our floor, then we want to go up.
Otherwise, oh, then we want to go up.
Otherwise, we want to go down. Okay? So
find the nearest request, get the
request that's closest to us, see what
floor that request is on. If it's above
us, we set our direction to up. If it's
below us, we set our direction to down.
Okay, easy enough. Um, what about case
three? So, case three, we can do that.
We stop at the current floor. Like,
should we stop at the current floor? How
are we going to define that? Well, we
can define that by just looking in our
set of requests to see if there is a
request for this given floor. But it's
not just this floor. This is important.
Candidates mess this up all the time.
Um, okay. I I got way too excited about
that. But um imagine that you are
sweeping up here. Let me reset this guy.
You are maybe sweeping up here and you
have a down request right here. You
wouldn't stop. Even though you're on
that floor, you would not stop because
this person wants to go down and you are
currently moving up, right? And so we
don't just want to set stop if it's the
floor. We want to stop in the case of a
hall call if it's the floor and the
right direction. In the case of a
destination request, we want to stop no
matter what, right? Because destination
requests don't care about the direction.
Um, so how do we do that? We have the
hall call request. Let's make it. We're
just going to check if they're in the
set of requests is basically all that
we're doing here. So I'm going to create
a request object of our current floor
and our type right our pickup type which
we need to define and it's going to be
that if our direction is currently going
up then that pickup type which we can
service is that pickup up pickup up gosh
I hate that I named it that and pickup
down pickup up is is hard to say
destination request.
This is simpler. This is just the
current floor. I guess we called ours
floor, right?
Hopefully. And then the type is just
destination.
All right. Okay. So, those are the two
types of requests that if those are in
our set of requests, then we will stop
for them. And so, let's just check if
they're in our set of requests. So if
our request contains the hall call
request or if it contains
contains the destination call request uh
then we are going to well let me
actually do these one at a time. I think
it's probably a little bit clear. So if
this is the case then we're stopping and
we're going to do request remove
him. Okay. And then same two this one
and then requests remove him. So the
removing is like us saying that we're
servicing the request. Maybe that is
admittedly a little confusing. Like
maybe we should have had an an uh you
know a stop here and elevator itself
should have exposed
a stop. In in reality I don't think it
matters too much. Like it's up to you.
Talk to your talk to your interviewer.
Who really cares? Uh, I'll I'll do it
here. Sure. We're going to we're going
to stop. Stop means open doors. So,
maybe we should have called it something
clearer even. Open doors. Um, but you
get the picture. And then
what else? I guess at this point we've
removed it.
If the request is empty, then our
direction should now be idle, right? Is
that going to happen in this step or in
next step? I think it should happen in
next step because we're just stopping
here. And so in either of those cases,
we've just stopped.
I think this is true, but I want to
return maybe. So what I'm going to do is
go back to this. I'm going to do that.
If either of those cases are true,
remove them. It's a no op. If we're
removing something that's not there, I
think we want to return here, right? The
tick is over. We stopped. We said that
we cannot do multiple things on the same
tick. So, at this point, that tick is
over. I think that's right. Uh I'm sure
some of my astute watchers are noticing
some mistake with that. Let me know. But
I think that checks out doing this here
on the spot. Um and then what was case
four? Case four is that we should
reverse if there's nothing ahead. And so
this is the case where we got to eight.
We got to eight. We could still keep
going up to nine, but we're at the top,
so we might as well just reverse at this
point. And so we need to define that
something is ahead. And we can do that
using our handy dandy private helper
method. And so if there's nothing ahead,
then our direction is going to flip. So
if direction currently equals up, it now
equals down. Otherwise, it equals up.
And we return. Uh, and then the last
case, the easiest case. This is just
that you're moving in a direction
basically. You're right here.
You're moving right here. You're moving
in the right direction. There's no
reason to stop yet. Nothing is going on.
Your tick is just to move in another
direction or, you know, move another
floor. And so if your direction is
currently up is currently up then your
floor [snorts]
plus+
uh else
if direction equals equals down
floor minus minus.
Okay I think this is our scan algorithm.
Let's just check it out. Um, again, if
you are idle or if there are no
requests, then you become idle and you
return. That was your tick. There's no
more to do. I'm done. That was my step.
Case two, um, pick up direction if or
pick a direction if idle. So, we can
pick a direction, but just picking a
direction itself isn't a tick. So,
that's why I don't return here. We can
pick a direction and then fall through
to actually moving once in that
direction. Moving is one step, right?
Just picking a direction is not a step.
Um, so find the nearest request and move
that step. See if we need to stop. Stop
is just is there a hall call to a
service here or a destination request.
If it's a hall call, let's make sure
we're moving in the right direction. If
we stop, then we return. That is a tick.
We were done with it or that is a step.
Sorry, I keep saying tick. Um, case
four, reverse. If there's nothing ahead,
if we reverse, I think we also should
not return, right? Because we've just
reversed. Same logic I just said. We
haven't actually moved. So, we'll
reverse and then we'll let case 5 handle
the actual movement.
Okay, I think I feel decent about that.
As for these helper methods, which one
of these should we do? I'm just going to
paste them both in. I don't want this
video to get too long and they're
ultimately not the most interesting
thing in your interview. Oftent times,
they're comfortable with you even just
not implementing these or just talking
through them. Um, it totally depends on
your interviewer.
Where was I?
Uh oh, here we go.
Okay, so the find the nearest request,
this is the one here where if we're
idle, we just find the nearest request.
This is easy. Scan all the requests,
find the closest one. So for all the
requests, take the absolute distance
between your floor. We called this
floor, not current floor, between your
floor um and the requests floor. And
then keep track of that minimum one,
right? Very similar to the helper method
that we had before the has request
ahead. Okay, this one is simply for each
request check is the direction that
you're moving up and the floor is
greater than you. Cool. Or is the
direction that you're heading down and
the floor is less than you? Cool. Okay,
so that's the one that we check here. Is
there any future requests ahead of us as
was not the case right here? And why we
ultimately flip directions. All right,
zooming out. That is I probably can't
zoom out far enough actually but that is
our complete implementation. I shouldn't
say complete but from an innov
interviews perspective it's our complete
implementation of elevator and elevator
controller request. There's nothing to
implement. It's just some getters and
setters. We implemented a basic scan
algorithm here. Uh and this is another
place where the strategy pattern could
have been used if you want to allow
users to swap the strategy um of how
elevators move.
The last step in our delivery framework
is around extensibility. And so if you
are a junior candidate, maybe even a
mid-level candidate and you got this
far, congratulations. This is probably
great. If you've done what we've done up
until this point, you probably passed
the interview. Um, if there is time
remaining, your interviewer might ask
you some extensibility questions. If
you're senior, certainly staff, expect
extensibility questions. These are
follow-ups to check how extensible your
design is and to see whether or not you
can kind of go deep in some of these
core areas. And so some of the common
accessibility questions for a question
like design an elevator are first about
concurrency. What if multiple hall calls
come in at the same time? What if a hall
call comes in while step is running?
That's an interesting one that we'll
spend most of the time talking about.
And then two easier ones, how would you
add priority floors or an express
elevator? How would you add the ability
to cancel a floor request? Uh so we're
going to do all three of these in an
interview. Maybe you just do one, maybe
you just do two. Again, I'm being more
complete here than you would be in your
interview and that's why this video
might end up going a little bit longer.
Um, but let's talk about this first one.
It's by far the most interesting.
And this is what happens when [snorts]
two users press request elevator. They
press the button from two different
floors, maybe floor 9 and floor 5. They
both press it at the exact same time.
What could happen here is two failure
states. The first failure state is that
imagine there's an idle elevator. They
both go in at the same time. They both
select best elevator and they both get
that idle elevator. And then we add that
idle elevator to both of their requests.
And this was clearly not the most
efficient thing to do. We should have
added the first request should have gone
to the idle elevator. The second request
should have considered that that
elevator is no longer idled and and
figured out what its best elevator was
respectively. The second issue is we
call add request potentially on the same
elevator and then this is a concurrent
modification and so this is where we are
updating the request set from two
separate threads which if not thread
safe data structures could overwrite
each other. So we think that we're
writing twice but we actually end up
writing once. This is kind of the common
concurrency issue. A common issue or
pattern uh in multi-threaded systems is
that you want to avoid the concurrent
modification of a given data structure.
So with that in mind, oh and one other
thing I should say that could happen in
the step function too. We have the same
where were we in the step function we
have the same issue in the step function
we are removing uh from that request set
and so if we have requests being added
at the same time that requests are being
removed another concurrent modification
and they could overwrite each other and
it's going to put us in a state that we
don't expect to be in. We don't want
that. And so there's two main solutions
here. The first of which is the easiest
to understand. um but you know has some
downsides and then the second is a
little bit more complex um but I think
the better solution. So let me show you
what they are. The first one here is
that we can just lock both of those
functions. We can lock the request
elevator and the step function
respectively. Put the same lock around
both of them. This is simple and
correct. There will be no concurrent
access to the set at all. But the
trade-off is that they block each other.
So a hall call has to wait while step is
running and vice versa. And so when you
acquire a lock, it just means that all
of the you can imagine the function
bodies were here. That's what the dot
dot dot is. The whole function body can
only be executed by a single thread at a
time and they basically just queue up
and wait for each other. So it'll work.
It'll slow down our system and that's
why it has some downsides, but it's a
decent option. The other option is a
little bit more fancy and it's where we
can make ad requests right to a thread
safe queue instead of instead of a set
directly and then at the start of each
tick let me copy this in while I'm
talking about it so you guys can get an
idea here. So we have add request add
add to this concurrent safe Q and then
at the start of each tick step is going
to drain the queue into the working set.
And so writers only touch the que uh and
then step only touches the set.
Basically we have a complete separation
here. Now there's no lock needed. And so
this is this pending request needs to be
a thread safe data structure. Each
language has a thread safe Q that you
can potentially use. Uh, and then we'll
just add the requests. And then when we
get to the steps, we'll iterate all of
our requests and we'll add them to that
set. But this way, when a new ad comes
in, it touches the thread safe Q. And
when our removes remove, they're
removing from the set, which is not the
same data structure. So there is no
concurrent modification of the same data
structure. Hopefully that's pretty
clear. Like I said, this one's simpler
and maybe easier to explain in an
interview, uh, but slows things down.
This one a little bit more elegant. Both
are great answers.
Okay, moving on. Um, how would you add a
priority flu floor? This one is actually
pretty straightforward. How would you
add it? Also, at this point in the
video, maybe pause and ask yourself,
think about it for a moment. I should
have said that for the other one as
well. Um, but there's a couple
approaches to this. Maybe the first
thing, and I see this from a lot of
candidates, is that you could think, oh,
let me add a priority field to the
request object, and then I could use a
priority queue, and so I can always go
to the one that's highest in the
priority. But this is going to break all
the effort we put into that scan
algorithm, the sweep in one direction
behavior that the elevator uh class uses
and it's just going to start jumping
around and basically screw everybody
else, right? So there's a downside
there. A better approach is that you
just keep the standard movement logic
for normal elevators, but maybe you
designate one in our case of the three
elevators as the express elevator. So
you just add like an is express to the
class. Oh gosh,
this is really not even interesting
enough for me to be typing this for you
guys, but is express boolean. You can
add that private variable to the class
that can be set on just one of the
elevators. And then it services just the
priority priority
floors. And so it might have a list of
floors like 2, five, and 9. And we can
say those are the priority floors. And
so now anything any request that's
dispatched to floors 2, five, and 9
should go to the express elevator. It's
only running between those three. So
everything's fast. Everything else is
going to the other ones and and still
using the scan algorithm. It's generally
the best approach there.
All right, last extension. Uh, how would
you handle cancelling requests? Super
straightforward, especially considering
the way we are designed right now. We
make it really easy. It would be as
simple as this. you just add a request
remove request function which takes in a
request and removes it from the set. Of
course, you want to lock acquire if
we're still worrying about the
concurrency issues here. And so maybe I
should do that
right.
But this extensibility question maybe is
a fun one for junior candidates. U
there's not much to it, right? You can
remove from the set in the same way that
you added. Fortunately, because our code
was already pretty clean, the removing
of the set just means that in the next
or removing of the request from the set,
it means that in the next step, that's
not going to be considered. So, if all
of a sudden we're empty now, we go idle,
right? If the direction has changed now,
we will change. And so, some candidates
implementations here are super messy.
And a question like this is a way for an
interviewer to sort of imply, wait,
there might be a mess here. Um, but in
our case, it was pretty straightforward.
All right, that's it folks. Hopefully,
you found this walkthrough valuable. Uh,
if you want to try this problem
yourself, head over to hell.com and
click on the guided practice for it.
You'll get step-by-step feedback on your
approach through each of these five
phases that we did here. Uh, leave some
comments. Let me know what I did wrong.
As always, I'm going to engage in the
comments. Love to hear from you guys.
Um,
most importantly, best of luck on your
upcoming interviews. You guys are going
to do great. Take care.